https://usegalaxy.eu/u/ashleysturtewagen/h/alternative-analysis-workflow-for-mapping-rna-seq-data-generated-using-the-cel-seq2-protocol
Galaxy training: "Understanding Barcodes" and "Pre-processing of Single-Cell RNA Data"

Create a new history and rename it 
Upload data in Galaxy

1. Preparing data
* Build a Dataset pair for the two FASTQ files
* Click the Operations on multiple datasets check box at the top of the history panel
    Check the two boxes next to the R1 and R2 scRNA FASTQ samples
* Click For all selected… and choose Build dataset pair
    Ensure that the forward read is the R1 sample, and the reverse read is the R2 sample.
Click ‘Swap’ otherwise.
Set the name of the pair.

2. FASTQC (default version)
Short  read data from history: Paired FastQ (Dataset collection)

3. UMI-Tools extract (Version 0.5.5.1)
"Library type": Paired-end Dataset collection 
"Barcode on both reads?: Barcode on fiirst read only

"Use known barcodes?": No

“Barcode pattern for first read”: NNNNNNCCCCCC
“Enable quality filter?”: No

4. Cutadapt (Default version)

"Single-end or Paired-end reads?":	single
FASTQ/A file: UMI extract dataset read 2 (sequence)

"Cut bases from reads before adapter trimming":	-43

5. concatenate datasets tail-to-head (cat) (Default version)
concatenate dataset: Cutadapt files on read2 UMI-tools extract

6. Map with BWA (default version)

"Will you select a reference genome from your history or use a built-in index?":	history
Dataset: reference cDNA file
"Algorithm for constructing the BWT index":	Auto. Let BWA decide the best algorithm to use
"Select input type":	single
"Select fastq dataset": Concatenated file of extracted UMIs

Set advanced single end options?	set
Maximum number of alignments to output in the XA tag:	100
"Set read groups information?":	do_not_set

Select analysis mode	full
"maximum edit distance if the value is integer, or the fraction of missing alignments given 2% uniform base error rate if float. In the latter case, the maximum edit distance is automatically chosen for different read lengths.":	0.04
"maximum number or gap openings":	1
"maximum number of gap extensions":	-1
"do not put an indel within this many bp towards the ends":	5
"maximum occurrences for extending a long deletion":	10
"seed length":	200
"maximum differences in the seed":	2
"maximum entries in the queue":	2000000
"mismatch penalty":	3
"gap open penalty":	11
"gap extension penalty":	4
"stop searching when there are more than this value of equally best hits":	30
"quality threshold for read trimming down to 35bp":	0
"length of barcode":	0

7. Samtools view (Default version)
Inputdata: Bam file of map with BWA
Output: Sam

8. Samtools stat (default version)
input Sam file 

9. MultiQC (Default version)
input: Samtools stat 
insert dataset --> Stat. 

10. Interactive jupyter notebook
fresh notebook
Data input: Samtools view 

11. Notebook
see script countingUMI-barcodes
