https://usegalaxy.eu/u/ashleysturtewagen/h/galaxy-analysis-workflow-for-mapping-rna-seq-data-generated-using-the-cel-seq2-protocol
Galaxy training: "Understanding Barcodes" and "Pre-processing of Single-Cell RNA Data"

Create a new history and rename it 
Upload data in Galaxy

1. Preparing data
* Build a Dataset pair for the two FASTQ files
* Click the Operations on multiple datasets check box at the top of the history panel
    Check the two boxes next to the R1 and R2 scRNA FASTQ samples
* Click For all selected… and choose Build dataset pair
    Ensure that the forward read is the R1 sample, and the reverse read is the R2 sample.
Click ‘Swap’ otherwise.
Set the name of the pair.

2. FASTQC (default version)
Short  read data from history: Paired FastQ (Dataset collection)

3. UMI-Tools extract (Version 0.5.5.1)
"Library type": Paired-end Dataset collection 
"Barcode on both reads?: Barcode on fiirst read only

"Use known barcodes?": No

“Barcode pattern for first read”: NNNNNNCCCCCC
“Enable quality filter?”: No

4. RNA-STAR (default version)
“Single-end or paired-end reads”: Single-end

“RNA-Seq FASTQ/FASTA file”: Reads2 (output of UMI-tools extract tool)

“Custom or built-in reference genome”: Use a built-in index
“Reference genome with or without an annotation”: use genome reference without builtin gene-model

Select reference genome”:  human hg19 

“Gene model (gff3,gtf) file for splice junctions”: gencode.v19.chr_patch_hapl_scaff.annotation.gtf

"Length of the genomic sequence around annotated junctions": 	1

5. MultiQC Tool (default version)
“Results”:
“1: Results”:
“Which tool was used to generate logs?”:STAR
    “STAR output”:
“1: STAR output”
    “Type of STAR output?”:Log
“STAR log output” :(Select the STAR output file that ends in “log”)
    Click on the galaxy-eye symbol on the MultiQC Webpage
    
6. FeatureCounts (default version)
“Alignment file”: mapped_reads (output of Filter BAM tool)

“Specify strand information”:Stranded (Forward)

“Gene annotation file”: in your history

“Gene annotation file”: Mus_musculus.GRCm38.93.mm10.UCSC.ncbiRefSeq.gtf

In “Advanced options”:
“Count multi-mapping reads/fragments”: Enabled; Both multi-mapping and multi-overlapping features are included 

“Exon-exon junctions”: No (default)
“Annotates the alignment file with ‘XS:Z:’-tags to described per read or read-pair the corresponding assigned feature(s).”: Yes

7. UMI-tools count (Version 0.5.5.1)
“Sorted BAM file”: out_file1 (output of FeatureCounts tool)

“UMI Extract Method”: Barcodes are contained at the end of the read separated by a delimiter

“Bam is paired-end”:No

“Method to identify group of reads”:Unique

“Extra Parameters”:

“Deduplicate per gene.”:XT

“Group reads only if they have the same cell barcode.”:Yes

“Prepend a label to all column headers”:No modifications

